FEBRUARY 2023

Pollinations is an AI Generated Content R&D Lab based out of Berlin

Pollinations augments human creativity with use-case specific content generation algorithms
Pimped
Osmosis
Majesty
Gucci
Disco
Photo3D
Enhance
IllusTrip 3D
DALL-E Mini
Lucid Solid Dreams
The team has developed +20 adopted AI content generation solutions since 2017
🐝
🐝
🐝
🐝
🐝
text → image
text → image
text → image
image → image
text → image
text → video
text → video
image → video
text → video
audio → video
1. ABOUT POLLINATIONS
✨
✨
✨
✨
✨
  indicates model is proprietary 

Pollinations users produce over 15,000 unique pieces of content each day

With enterprise users also seeing significant cost and time benefits from integrating pollinations
Pollinations is being used by over 20,000 users to create +15,000 pieces of art every day, across several channels (front-end/website, discord bot, twitter bot, direct URLs)/
Resident Advisor, Audiolith International, and 6 other top tier enterprise clients have used pollinations to generate content. A pollinations generated NFT sold for $120,000.
RESIDENT ADVISOR
2. ADOPTION
15K
JAN 2022
BUSINESS TO BUSINESS OFFERING
DIRECT TO CONSUMER OFFERING

There’s significant value to be captured at the AI ‘middle-layer’

Pollinations combines and fine-tunes content generation algorithms to solve specific use-cases
3. PRODUCT
multimodal
computer vision
natural language processing
audio processing / preprocessing
visual question answering, image-to-text, text-to-image, feature extraction
image-to-image, object detection, depth estimation, unconditional image, image classification, image segmentation
text-to-speech, transcription
translation, text classification, summarization, text-to-text generation
use-cases
models
Selfie to Avatar
users upload a selfie that is instantly converted into a brand consistent avatar - high demand B2B product
Dynamic NFT Generation
generate single or trait consistent NFT collections - a pollinations generated 1 of 1 NFT sold for $120,000 in Nov 22
Royalty-free Generated Images
without leaving their text processor, users can embed relevant royalty-free content using pollinations
prompt: “maoui statue gives first TED talk”

Our portfolio of products is a critical part of web3 infrastructure

Metaverse build-out will require significant AI assisted content generation – audio, video and 3D
3. PRODUCT
dreamachine
lucid solid dreams
thought bubble vr
Dreamachine is an immersive installation in which the participants share their dream with an Artificial Intelligence model that creates a visual representation of it. 


Create Worlds from Prompts

https://dreamachine.pollinations.ai/
LSD is a StyleGAN powered AI solution that generates music-linked videos that move with every sound. You can play with the LSD alpha via the link below.


Add Detailed Visuals to Audio

Pollinations LSD Alpha
Thought Bubble is a brainstorming tool that visualizes your thoughts. Participants share their thoughts with the model, and it provides a visual output in real-time. 


Visualize Thoughts in VR

Private Alpha

nft pfp builder
Pollinations’ NFT solution allows users to generate an entire collection of NFTs with consistent ‘traits’ and ‘characteristics’, allowing anyone to launch an NFT project.


Instantly Generate NFT PFPs

Currently Available for B2B Users

AI Generated content is becoming essential to filling the content gap

Pollinations has begun monetizing its customer base by introducing a credits model
4. UNIT ECONOMICS
100,000,000
Pieces of Content per Year

Current: ~5,500,000
5% Using Credits
Paid Generated Content

Current: 0.00%
$0.15 per Credit
Cost of Each Credit

Current: $0.00
$750,000
Mass Retail Revenue

H2 2023 - H2 2024
25 Clients
Enterprise Clients Using Pollinations

Current: 7
$10,000 per Project
Average Implementation Fee

Current: ~$1,500
$250,000
Enterprise Revenue

H2 2023 - H2 2024

We have a strong pipeline and are looking to scale our business

Pollinations needs to scale to meet demand and remain relevant in a fast growing space
5. SEED ROUND
WAGES & SALARIES
(8 Full Time Employees - 12 Months)
AWS & GOOGLE CREDITS
(Includes Forecasted Growth)
SOFTWARE & HARDWARE
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE
(Including Legal)
$500,000
$200,000
$35,000
$15,000
🛬 12 Months Runway



🎯 1,000,000 Users



💼 25 Enterprise Clients



💰 $1,000,000 ARR
ask
target

The team possesses deep AI, web3, and company building expertise

The Pollinations team is growing, currently 5 FTEs and 2 PTEs
6. TEAM
@thomas is a seasoned software engineer and ML researcher. Deeply involved in the overlap between art and AI with multiple years’ experience managing teams working on synthetic media. He has held positions at Sun Microsystems  and Amazon.
@caroline_ is a foresight expert who’s passionate about designing new futures into existence. She has over 10 years’ experience emerging technologies working with top tier companies such as Nestlé, UNESCO, BNP Paribas, World Government Summit.
Talk to the team directly on Discord or Twitter
@nielsrolf is a machine learning specialist, and full stack developer with over 5 years of professional experience in AI and machine learning. He has a passion for the intersection of AI and art. He has previously held positions at Porsche and the Technische Universität Berlin. 
@elliot is a machine learning specialist, and full stack developer with over 5 years of professional experience in AI and machine learning. He has a passion for the intersection of AI and art. He has previously held positions at Porsche and the Technische Universität Berlin. 
@ale_rls is a machine learning specialist, and full stack developer with over 5 years of professional experience in AI and machine learning. He has a passion for the intersection of AI and art. He has previously held positions at Porsche and the Technische Universität Berlin. 

@elliot undertook the 39th largest token generation event at the time, raising $33.3MN in 27 days. He then founded the fastest growing crypto-exchange in the Middle East and North Africa. Prior to which, he worked at consultancies such as Oliver Wyman and Deloitte.
@ale_rls undertook the 39th largest token generation event at the time, raising $33.3MN in 27 days. He then founded the fastest growing crypto-exchange in the Middle East and North Africa. Prior to which, he worked at consultancies such as Oliver Wyman and Deloitte.

ALL VIDEOS AND IMAGES IN THIS DOCUMENT WERE GENERATED USING POLLINATIONS.AI
