Becoming Ram Dass
Ram Dass’s spiritual journey began in the 1960s, when he was a Harvard psychologist called Richard Alpert. His name was later changed by his guru in India. So, to keep things simple, we’ll use that name. It’s the one he’s best known by – Ram Dass.

In 1961, Dass had everything – on the surface at least. He was a Harvard professor at the height of his academic career. He owned a nice apartment, a car, a motorcycle … and even a small plane.

And yet, despite his success, Dass grappled with a profound sense of dissatisfaction – a nagging feeling that there had to be more to life.

His quest for understanding led him to the world of psychedelic drugs. And for the first time, he encountered the infinite expanse of human consciousness. Substances like psilocybin and LSD opened up a universe of perception and insight that he had never imagined possible. 

However, to his dismay, Dass soon realized that the euphoria and expanded awareness that these substances brought were fleeting. Every experience was followed by an inevitable come-down. 

Dass was left longing for a more enduring connection to the spiritual world. And for a while, he sank into despair.

As a result of his involvement in psychedelics, Dass lost his job at Harvard. But then came a new opportunity – to travel to India, a country rich in spiritual history and wisdom. 

It was here that a chance meeting with a young, surprisingly enlightened American traveler changed everything. 

This new friend, who lived a life of remarkable simplicity, taught Dass the power of being fully present in each moment. And together, they embarked on a journey that led them to a guru.

Dass was initially skeptical. But his encounter with the guru – Neem Karoli Baba, or “Maharaji” to his followers – became a pivotal moment of awakening. 

One day, Maharaji said to Dass, “Last night you were thinking about your mother.”

“Yes”, said Dass, surprised that he knew this.

Then Maharaji said something that he couldn’t possibly have known – that Dass’s mother had died the previous year, and that the cause was her stomach. More precisely, her spleen.

Dass was stunned. There was no rational explanation for what had just happened. Clearly, there was a level of consciousness at work that went beyond the individual. 

This encounter, both mystifying and illuminating, opened Dass’s heart to Maharaji’s teachings.

Then, with the guidance of another spiritual mentor – called Baba Hari Dass – Ram Dass began to explore the teachings of Raja Yoga. 

In addition to practices like yoga, breathing exercises, and meditation, Dass learned spiritual teachings through simple lessons – phrases like “Snakes know heart”, and “Yogis in jungle need not fear”.

These were lessons about energy and vibrations. In other words, if you’re spiritually pure, there’s nothing to fear.

For Dass, this phase of deep learning and growth instilled a profound awareness of the connection between the divine, the self, and the universe.

When he returned to the West, Dass still considered himself a novice on the spiritual path. But he was keen to share his lessons and insights with others on the same journey. 



Ram Dass Quotes
Ram Dass quotes are inspirational quotes meant to deliver us back into our souls. These profound inspirational quotes from Ram Dass will make you think and go deep within yourself. This happens intuitively and can happen simply by opening our hearts. As Ram Dass says, “We’re fascinated by the words, but where we meet is in the silence behind them.” This silence comes only out of deep internal reflection. Ram Dass quotes are very good at helping us take off our egos and find love in our lives.

“We’re fascinated by the words, but where we meet is in the silence behind them.”

Ram Dass covers spiritual topics in all of his work and one of his best tricks is to use humor to break through the mind’s barriers. So there are spiritual quotes, funny quotes, life quotes, love quotes, and inspirational quotes all throughout this page. He tries to make you smile, because in this joy you will be more closely aligned to your soul.

Ram Dass Love Quotes
“Unconditional love really exists in each of us. It is part of our deep inner being. It is not so much an active emotion as a state of being. It’s not ‘I love you’ for this or that reason, not ‘I love you if you love me.’ It’s love for no reason, love without an object.”

“You are loved just for being who you are, just for existing. You don’t have to do anything to earn it. Your shortcomings, your lack of self-esteem, physical perfection, or social and economic success – none of that matters. No one can take this love away from you, and it will always be here.”

“The universe is an example of love. Like a tree. Like the ocean. Like my body. Like my wheelchair. I see the love.”

“Maharaj-ji, in my first darshan, my first meeting with him, showed me his powers. At that point I was impressed with the power. But subsequently, I realized that it was really his love that pulled me in. His love is unconditional love.”

“I remember my first visit with my guru. He had shown that he read my mind. So I looked at the grass and I thought, ‘My god, he’s going to know all the things I don’t want people to know.’ I was really embarrassed. Then I looked up and he was looking directly at me with unconditional love.”

“I hang out with my guru in my heart. And I love every thing in the universe. That’s all I do all day.”

“I’m not interested in being a ‘lover.’ I’m interested in only being love.”

“If I go into the place in myself that is love, and you go into the place in yourself that is love, we are together in love. Then you and I are truly in love, the state of being love. That’s the entrance to Oneness. That’s the space I entered when I met my guru.”

“The most important aspect of love is not in giving or the receiving: it’s in the being. When I need love from others, or need to give love to others, I’m caught in an unstable situation. Being in love, rather than giving or taking love, is the only thing that provides stability. Being in love means seeing the Beloved all around me.”

Ram Dass Inspirational Quotes
“When the faith is strong enough, it is sufficient just to be. It’s a journey towards simplicity, towards quietness, towards a kind of joy that is not in time. It’s a journey that has taken us from primary identification with our body and our psyche, on to an identification with God, and ultimately beyond identification.”

“It is important to expect nothing, to take every experience, including the negative ones, as merely steps on the path, and to proceed.”

“As we grow in our consciousness, there will be more compassion and more love, and then the barriers between people, between religions, between nations will begin to fall. Yes, we have to beat down the separateness.”

“Pain is the mind. It’s the thoughts of the mind. Then I get rid of the thoughts, and I get in my witness, which is down in my spiritual heart. The witness that witnesses being. Then those particular thoughts that are painful – love them. I love them to death!“

“When you are already in Detroit, you don’t have to take a bus to get there.”

“Your problem is you are too busy holding on to your unworthiness.”

“Before the stroke, I was on a very spiritual plane. I ignored my body, took it for granted. When I look at my life, I see that I wanted to be free of the physical plane, the psychological plane, and when I got free of those, I didn’t want to go anywhere near them. But the stroke reminded me that I had a body and a brain, that I had to honor them.”

“Our plans never turn out as tasty as reality.”

“Only that in you, which is me can hear what I’m saying.”

“Each of us finds his unique vehicle for sharing with others his bit of wisdom.”

“Suffering is part of our training program for becoming wise.”

“Let’s trade in all our judging for appreciating. Let’s lay down our righteousness and just be together.”

“The next message you need is always right where you are.”

Ram Dass Relationship Quotes
“We come into relationships often very much identified with our needs. I need this, I need security, I need refuge, I need friendship. And all of relationships are symbiotic in that sense. We come together because we fulfill each others’ needs at some level or other.”

“When I look at relationships, my own and others, I see a wide range of reasons for people to be together and ways in which they are together. I see ways in which a relationship – which means something that exists between two or more people – for the most part reinforces people’s separateness as individual entities.”

“When I used to perform weddings, the image I always had was the image of a triangle, in which there are two partners and then there is this third force, this third being, that emerges out of the interaction of these two. The third one is the one that is the shared awareness that lies behind the two of them.”

“In most of our human relationships, we spend much of our time reassuring one another that our costumes of identity are on straight.”

Ram Dass Death Quotes
“In our Western culture, although death has come out of the closet, it is still not openly experienced or discussed. Allowing dying to be so intensely present enriches both the preciousness of each moment and our detachment from it.”

“Working with the dying is like being a midwife for this great rite of passage of death. Just as a midwife helps a being take their first breath, you help a being take their last breath.”

“In working with those who are dying, I offer another human being a spacious environment with my mind in which they can die as they need to die. I have no right to define how another person should die. I’m just there to help them transition, however they need to do it.”

“The stroke has given me another way to serve people. It lets me feel more deeply the pain of others; to help them know by example that ultimately, whatever happens, no harm can come. ‘Death is perfectly safe,’ I like to say.”

“I sit with people who are dying. I’m one of those unusual types that enjoys being with someone when they’re dying because I know I am going to be in the presence of Truth.”

More Ram Dass Quotes
“We’re all just walking each other home.”

“Treat everyone you meet like God in drag.”

“The thinking mind is what is busy. You have to stay in your heart. You have to be in your heart. Be in your heart. The rest is up here in your head where you are doing, doing, doing.”

“My guru said that when he suffers, it brings him closer to God. I have found this, too.”

“From a Hindu perspective, you are born as what you need to deal with, and if you just try and push it away, whatever it is, it’s got you.”

“In India, there’s a way of seeing life as a cosmic play. It’s called Lila. I can watch my life, and I can see my guru playing with me.”

“I have always said that often the religion you were born with becomes more important to you as you see the universality of truth.”

“The most exquisite paradox…as soon as you give it all up, you can have it all. As long as you want power, you can’t have it. The minute you don’t want power, you’ll have more than you ever dreamed possible.”

“What you meet in another being is the projection of your own level of evolution.”

“As long as you have certain desires about how it ought to be you can’t see how it is.”

“If you think you’re free, there’s no escape possible.”

“A feeling of aversion or attachment toward something is your clue that there’s work to be done.”

“It’s all real and it’s all illusory: that’s Awareness!”

“Every religion is the product of the conceptual mind attempting to describe the mystery.”

“Be here, now!”

“The game is not about becoming somebody, it’s about becoming nobody.”

“If you think you’re enlightened go spend a week with your family.”

“I am not this body. I am in this body, and this is part of my incarnation and I honor it but that isn’t who I am.”

“Be patient. You’ll know when it’s time for you to wake up and move ahead.”

“Inspiration is God making contact with itself.”

“Our rational minds can never understand what has happened, but our hearts, if we can keep them open to God, will find their own intuitive way.”

“Compassion refers to the arising in the heart of the desire to relieve the suffering of all beings.”